---
description: >-
  This article describes the go deploy Data Engineering on Microsoft Azure lab
  environment
---

# DP-203

DP-203 Data Engineering on Microsoft Azure is a complex course and lab setup.  This article will describe the environment and how to use it effectively.

This course will require strict classroom management to effectively use time.  Some of the lab environments take over 2 hours to fully deploy and labs **CANNOT** **be saved**.  All labs are set to terminate when the timer reaches 00:00:00 which is located in the bottom left hand corner of the lab screen.  Once the timer reaches 15 mins you will see a warning that will enable you to extend labs for another 60 minutes.  You can do this as many times as necessary.

MCTs must fully understand these environments and the time taken to deploy prior to starting a class.  Failing to do so may result in a poorly executed delivery.

Since these environments use commercial Azure subscriptions, each resource is billed for consumption. Should students or instructors go outside of the scope of the course or try to change the SKU/Size of any resources, the resources will be automatically deleted and be unrecoverable.

{% hint style="danger" %}
On testing, occasionally the deployment scripts fail.  This is due to Azure not responding quickly enough to the scripts being deployed.  This is outside the control of go deploy and is not an issue with the go deploy cloud share environment!  Simply monitor the deployment in the Azure Portal once you have launched the lab.  If anything fails to deploy correctly, end the lab and re-launch.
{% endhint %}

**Lab Environments**  
  
There are 4 lab environments for DP-203:

* Environment 1 - Used for modules 1,6,15 and 17
  * _resource deployment takes approx 30 minutes_
  * _Default lab time is 3 hours and can be extended if required_
* Environment 2 - Used for module 2
  * _resource deployment takes approx 25 minutes_
  * _default lab time is 2 hours and can be extended if required_
* Environment 3 - Used for modules 4,5,7,8,9,10,11,12,13 and 16
  * _resource deployment takes approx 2-3 hours_
  * _default lab time is 8 hours and can be extended if required_
* Environment 4 - Used for module 4
  * _resource deployment takes approx 25 minutes_
  * _default lab time is 2 hours and can be extended if required_

As you can see, some of the labs take up to 2 hours to deploy all the resources.  This is why classroom/time management is key to the success of this course.  It is recommended that labs are started at the beginning of the day or prior to breaks and/or lectures to ensure the resources are fully deployed and databases seeded with the required data.

{% hint style="info" %}
When pasting large code blocks into the lab environment, past them into a Notepad session first to maintain the formatting then copy from notepad to wherever the script needs to be run from.
{% endhint %}



\*\*\*\*



